docs/install.md, before:

# Install

## Packages

_We haven't packaged Mycoria yet for any platform. If you want to help out, it is much appreciated. Specifically, we are looking for help with packaging for Windows WinGet, .deb, .rpm and inclusion in Linux distros._

## Manual Install

!!! tip "More platforms are planned, help is welcome!"

### Windows (amd64, arm64)

Install with powershell as Admin:

``` powershell
# Go to destination where you want to install Mycoria

# Download latest release
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_windows_amd64.exe" -OutFile "mycoria.exe"
# Or, download arm64 version:
# Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_windows_arm64.exe" -OutFile "mycoria.exe"

# Generate config file.
.\mycoria.exe config generate XX | Tee-Object -FilePath "config.yaml" # Replace XX with your country code.

# Install and enable systemd service
# WIP...
```

!!! info "Required Dependency for Windows"

    Mycoria requires WinTun. [Download it here](https://www.wintun.net/) and place `wintun.dll` in the same directory as mycoria.exe

### Linux (amd64, arm64)

``` sh
# Create directory and download binary.
mkdir /opt/mycoria
wget https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_linux_amd64 -O /opt/mycoria/mycoria
# Or, download arm64 version:
# wget https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_linux_arm64 -O /opt/mycoria/mycoria
chmod +x /opt/mycoria/mycoria

# Generate config file.
/opt/mycoria/mycoria config generate XX | tee /opt/mycoria/config.yaml # Replace XX with your country code.

# Install and enable systemd service
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mycoria/mycoria/master/packaging/mycoria.service | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/mycoria.service
systemctl enable mycoria # Start at boot.
systemctl start mycoria # Start now.
journalctl -fu mycoria # Live-view logs.

# Check status
# View router ID and version
curl [fd00::b909]
# View routing table
curl [fd00::b909]/table
```

!!! info "Why does Mycoria need my country code?"

    It's a vital part of the scalable routing concept.  
    [Read more about it here.](/concept/#scalable-routing)
    
    If you pick an incorrect one, it will undermine _your_ routing performance.

### DNS on Linux

In order to use `.myco` domains, you need to tell Linux to resolve `.myco` using Mycoria.

As there are so many different systems and configuration options, help here is much appreciated.  
(This is such a mess on Linux - we probably won't try to auto-configure this until it gets better.)

#### Option 1: systemd-networkd

Create this file

``` sh
/etc/systemd/network/mycoria.network
```

with the following contents:

``` ini
[Match]
Name=mycoria

[Network]
DNS=fd00::b909
Domains=~myco
```

To make sure the changes are picked up do:

```sh
sudo networkctl reload
```

#### Option 2: systemd-resolved

Create this file

``` sh
/etc/systemd/resolved.conf.d/mycoria.conf
```

with the following contents:

``` ini
[Resolve]
DNS=fd00::b909
Domains=~myco
```

To make sure the changes are picked up do:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved
```

Note: If you have another global resolver configured, make sure it has `Domains=~.` set for better compatibility. Otherwise all queries might be first routed to mycoria and then your other resolver. It still works, but you loose a couple milliseconds.

#### Option 3: NetworkManager

``` sh
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns "fd00::b909"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-search "myco"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-options "inet6 timeout:1 attempts:1"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-priority "1000"

# Check interface settings with:
nmcli connection show mycoria
# Check full status with
nmcli
```

If this does not work or you have multiple mycoria interfaces in nmcli, try resetting the NetworkManager interface settings for mycoria:

``` sh
nmcli connection delete mycoria
sudo rm /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/mycoria.nmconnection
```

#### Option 4: IPv6 Router Advertisements (ND/SLAAC)

Mycoria sends router advertisements that advertise the DNS server (RDNSS) and the `.myco` domain (DNSSL).  
If you can make your Linux accept these, everything _might_ auto-configure.

Starting point:  

``` sh
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.mycoria.accept_ra=1
```

_The rest is up to you._

#### Option 5: Portmaster

If you are using [Portmaster](https://safing.io/), you can simply add this to the configured DNS Servers:

``` urlencoded
dns://[fd00::b909]?name=Mycoria&search=myco&search-only
```

Commit message:

Update quick start and install to use country code detection

docs/install.md, after:

# Install

## Packages

_We haven't packaged Mycoria yet for any platform. If you want to help out, it is much appreciated. Specifically, we are looking for help with packaging for Windows WinGet, .deb, .rpm and inclusion in Linux distros._

## Manual Install

!!! tip "More platforms are planned, help is welcome!"

### Windows (amd64, arm64)

Install with powershell as Admin:

``` powershell
# Go to destination where you want to install Mycoria

# Download latest release
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_windows_amd64.exe" -OutFile "mycoria.exe"
# Or, download arm64 version:
# Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_windows_arm64.exe" -OutFile "mycoria.exe"

# Generate config file.
.\mycoria.exe config generate XX | Tee-Object -FilePath "config.yaml" # Replace XX with your country code.

# Install and enable systemd service
# WIP...
```

!!! info "Required Dependency for Windows"

    Mycoria requires WinTun. [Download it here](https://www.wintun.net/) and place `wintun.dll` in the same directory as mycoria.exe

### Linux (amd64, arm64)

``` sh
# Create directory and download binary.
mkdir /opt/mycoria
wget https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_linux_amd64 -O /opt/mycoria/mycoria
# Or, download arm64 version:
# wget https://github.com/mycoria/mycoria/releases/latest/download/mycoria_linux_arm64 -O /opt/mycoria/mycoria
chmod +x /opt/mycoria/mycoria

# Generate config file.
/opt/mycoria/mycoria config generate | tee /opt/mycoria/config.yaml

# Install and enable systemd service
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mycoria/mycoria/master/packaging/mycoria.service | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/mycoria.service
systemctl enable mycoria # Start at boot.
systemctl start mycoria # Start now.
journalctl -fu mycoria # Live-view logs.

# Check status
# Open Dashboard in Browser: http://[fd00::b909]

# Or, check status with curl:
# View router ID and version
curl [fd00::b909]
# View routing table
curl [fd00::b909]/table
```

!!! info "Why does Mycoria need my country code?"

    It's a vital part of the scalable routing concept.  
    [Read more about it here.](/concept/#scalable-routing)
    
    If you pick an incorrect one, it will undermine _your_ routing performance.

### DNS on Linux

In order to use `.myco` domains, you need to tell Linux to resolve `.myco` using Mycoria.

As there are so many different systems and configuration options, help here is much appreciated.  
(This is such a mess on Linux - we probably won't try to auto-configure this until it gets better.)

#### Option 1: systemd-networkd

Create this file

``` sh
/etc/systemd/network/mycoria.network
```

with the following contents:

``` ini
[Match]
Name=mycoria

[Network]
DNS=fd00::b909
Domains=~myco
```

To make sure the changes are picked up do:

```sh
sudo networkctl reload
```

#### Option 2: systemd-resolved

Create this file

``` sh
/etc/systemd/resolved.conf.d/mycoria.conf
```

with the following contents:

``` ini
[Resolve]
DNS=fd00::b909
Domains=~myco
```

To make sure the changes are picked up do:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved
```

Note: If you have another global resolver configured, make sure it has `Domains=~.` set for better compatibility. Otherwise all queries might be first routed to mycoria and then your other resolver. It still works, but you loose a couple milliseconds.

#### Option 3: NetworkManager

``` sh
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns "fd00::b909"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-search "myco"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-options "inet6 timeout:1 attempts:1"
nmcli connection modify mycoria ipv6.dns-priority "1000"

# Check interface settings with:
nmcli connection show mycoria
# Check full status with
nmcli
```

If this does not work or you have multiple mycoria interfaces in nmcli, try resetting the NetworkManager interface settings for mycoria:

``` sh
nmcli connection delete mycoria
sudo rm /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/mycoria.nmconnection
```

#### Option 4: IPv6 Router Advertisements (ND/SLAAC)

Mycoria sends router advertisements that advertise the DNS server (RDNSS) and the `.myco` domain (DNSSL).  
If you can make your Linux accept these, everything _might_ auto-configure.

Starting point:  

``` sh
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.mycoria.accept_ra=1
```

_The rest is up to you._

#### Option 5: Portmaster

If you are using [Portmaster](https://safing.io/), you can simply add this to the configured DNS Servers:

``` urlencoded
dns://[fd00::b909]?name=Mycoria&search=myco&search-only
```
